# List of GenAI Use cases

Prompt Engineering => Retrival Augmented Generation => Fine-Tuning

Bookworm: A user is able to discuss the book with this application (Bookworm). Ask the application to read (audio) the book or select parts of the book. Bookworm enjoys engaging with a user for a selected book. Bookworm could recommend other books based on conversation with a user. Of course, Bookworm can utilize audio or text to carry out these conversations. Along the same trend of thought, Bookworm-like applications could be an interface to newspapers’ or magazines’ content.

PM-Assistant: When we are operating software systems (that we developed), an on-call becomes the responsibility of the same team. The team will receive asks in the form of JIRA tickets from patrons. Every sprint planning meeting, based on available capacity, importance, urgency, and confidence, a team needs to decide which JIRA tickets to work on the coming sprint. It helps to have a summary view to guide decision making. A PM-Assistant could help to summarize what the top-10 pain points from JIRA tickets (closed ones in the last 3 sprints and waiting in backlog) by considering the importance, needs by date, and other criteria available in JIRA fields. The PM-Assistant could also help us to categorize and decide the priority of the next set of development items based on ROI calculated from existing JIRA tickets and availability of members. Although humans are the decision makers, LLM handles undifferentiated heavy lifting by gathering and summarizing JIRA tickets of our team every day. This solution enables data-driven informed decision making.

Onboarding-Companion: Onboarding new members to a software engineering team happens multiple times in a year. We assign a buddy to accelerate the onboarding process while investing in training materials. In this use case, a new engineering team member could interact with a corpus of architecture, design, test, ADR (architecture design records), JIRA tickets, relevant CVEs, CICD scripts, monitoring scripts, runbooks, rca/coe documents, and source code via Onboarding-Companion. This application could prepare quizzes to test retention of knowledge about the runbooks or modules in the software system. Onboarding-Companion could create mock JIRA tickets and assess new member’s solutions, and create mock on-call scenarios to evaluate new member’s performance. These kinds of solutions could help us to change how we onboard new members: training on available materials, asking questions to team members, shadowing (by observing experienced members), reverse-shadowing (by receiving feedback), and finally being ready to drive by themselves. Onboarding-Companion could support on-call as a knowledgeable on-call assistant.

Study-Buddy: Students prepare for assessments for the classes they are taking to demonstrate their mastery. Generally assessments given in the prior years are available. These prior assessments, student class notes, teacher’s class notes, and teacher’s recordings can build a topic specific document base (corpus) for a study-buddy. An LLM can help students to master the topic by interacting conversationally, engaging in Q&A, giving assessments and identifying improvements, and personalizing learning experience for the student. If the operating costs are reasonable, a study-buddy could generate short videos (for instance, using Sora 2) to explain material/concepts, enact experiments/events, or find a segment of existing multimedia. A study-buddy could take an animated character form (via video generators) for engaging user experience.A study-buddy could tune into the student’s learning styles (visual learner, auditory learner (by listening), read/write learners, kinesthetic learners (by doing)) for this class.

Course-Selection-Assistant: High school students start to face the course selection process (preparation for next level of education). The high school policy manual explains all the rules about the graduation such as mandatory courses/tracks, number of credits, mandatory exams. The school courses document explains the available courses and dependencies between these courses if any. Each student needs to select and submit their course selection before the published deadline by considering the current policies, current available courses, graduation requirements and courses completed. An application can ingest the policy and courses document to answer questions on these. A course-selection-assistant will need a way to figure out which courses a particular student has completed so far. A ‘tool’ mechanism allows LLM to ask for further information. For instance, A course-selection-assistant could ask for a student's id and invoke a tool that can retrieve a list of completed courses for this student. Then the course-selection-assistant could assess completed courses, earned credits, etc. with respect to the policy and available courses to recommend course-selection alternatives. After the course-selection-assistant has enough information about the student, it could engage in what-if scenario analysis based on available paths.

Benefits-Selection-Assistant: Employees select and register for benefits annually. Employees need to decide on many items with a plethora of options. For instance, for health benefits, an employee needs to find out which family members are eligible (federal and state laws/regulations), find out which plans are probably better based on recent history and offered coverage, find out FSA or HSA and contribution amount, and etc. For instance, for retirement investment, an employee needs to find out contribution limits, find out which investment vehicle is available and better (IRA, Roth IRA, Gold IRA, 401K, etc.), tax considerations and prior filings, etc. There are interdependencies between these choices in addition to constraints federal and state laws and regulations define. Every employee needs to solve their constrained multi-objective optimization problem every year during the registration window. A Benefits-Selection-Assistant could be a powerful companion for each individual during this process. Applicable federal and state laws and regulations (such as tax), available benefits and their coverage, etc. go into the base corpus. Benefits-Selection-Assistant can do Q&A based on base documents. Benefits-Selection-Assistant will need to collect specifics from individual or systems individual grant read access to so that Benefits-Selection-Assistant could present feasible selections and converse about these selections and reasoning with citations. Employees will be able to make informed decisions while being aware of a large body of documents.

From [8 ways agentic AI will transform IT operations](https://www.cio.com/article/4079008/8-ways-agentic-ai-will-transform-it-operations.html)
- Note: Generally most business workloads have a state or a workflow is in-progress. Restarting without knowing the state of application layer may create data corruption problems and more surgical work.
- Use-Case: the AI agent might detect a database service that’s becoming unresponsive, correlate all related signals, and then recommend restarting the service rather than rebooting the entire server.
- Use-Case: Monitor server certificates and renew
- Use-Case: Monitor disk space usage, remediate before it becomes a problem.
- Use-Case: Picture an AI that spots a memory leak, spins up a replacement server, redirects workloads, and patches the faulty node before anyone even knows there’s an issue.
